Chickpea Fries with Avocado-Garlic Aioli

The creamy, garlicky aioli is a perfect counterpoint to the herby fries in this recipe. Feel free to switch up the herbs if you’re not a fan of dill. And if you don’t have avocados or prefer a more traditional condiment, ketchup works beautifully, too!

For the aioli:
1/4 cup (40 g) raw cashews
1 medium just-ripe avocado
1 clove garlic, minced
1 Tbsp (15 ml) fresh lemon juice
1 tsp (5 ml) apple cider vinegar
pinch fine sea salt, or to taste
1/3-1/2 cup (80-120 ml) water, depending on how thick you want the aioli

For the fries:
1-1/2 cups (240 g) chickpea flour, measured and then sifted
1-1/2 cups (360 ml) vegetable broth or stock
1/4-1/3 cup (60-80 ml) coarsely chopped fresh dill (or other herb of choice–basil, parsley, cilantro or fresh tarragon would all work nicely)
1 Tbsp (15 ml) extra virgin olive oil, preferably organic (optional)

Preheat oven to 400F (200 C). Line an 8-inch (20 cm) square pan with parchment or grease with nonstick spray. Line a large cookie sheet with parchment and set aside.

Begin the aioli: place the cashews in a small bowl and cover with boiling water. Allow to soak while you prepare the fries.

Make the fries: In a bowl, whisk together the chickpea flour, broth and herbs.  Pour into the pan and tap lightly on the countertop to remove any air bubbles. Bake for 20-25 minutes, until the top is dry and the mixture is solid. Remove from oven and allow to cool slightly (about 5 minutes).

Invert the pan over a cutting board and peel off the parchment if you used it. Cut the square into quarters, forming four smaller squares. Then cut each of the quarters into 4 or 5 strips, depending how thick you want your fries. (Don’t separate the strips just yet).

If you wish, you can brush the fries with oil to help them brown and for the outside to crisp up more. Brush over the top of the fries and then separate the strips, lining them up on the cookie sheet with about 1/4 inch (.5 cm) space between them. Bake for another 15-20 minutes, until they begin to brown slightly on the edges. (If you wish, remove the fries after 15 minutes, turn them over, and brush the other side with oil as well; this isn’t necessary, but does help them to brown more evenly). Note that the fries won’t be hard and crispy like potato-based fries; they should still be soft inside.
While the fries bake, finish the aioli: Drain the cashews and place in the jar of a high-speed blender. Add remaining ingredients and, using the tamper, blend until thick and creamy. Taste and adjust salt if necessary.  Serve immediately with fries. Makes 4 appetizer or 2 main course servings.


Suitable for: ACD All Stages, sugar-free, gluten-free, grain-free, dairy-free, egg free, soy-free, nut free, yeast-free, vegan, low glycemic.
